Hi there, welcome. I
am so happy you are
here today. Now we
are going to learn
what malware is. Are
you ready? Let's go.
You may already know
that malware is an
English term that
combines two keywords
, malicious and
software. So it is a
computer program that
does some harm to our
digital assets or to
you. We can imagine
it as a digital bug
that makes a mess in
the computer. Let us
consider an example
from the physical
world to illustrate
the concept of
malware. Imagine a
device that looks
like a robotic vacuum
cleaner, but it is
broken or
misconfigured.
Therefore, instead of
cleaning the floor,
it collects
everything it finds,
turns the dirt into
dust and blows it
into the room. You
might ask, what harm
could malware cause?
Well, different types
of malware cause
different damage.
Malware can slow your
computer by consuming
its resources.
Malware can delete
your data, such as
images or your
homework. Malware can
even make your data
unreadable by
damaging or
encrypting it with a
password you do not
know. Some of the
programs might stop
working. Malware can
monitor your behavior
on the computer and
record what you type
on the keyboard to
steal your identity
on a gaming platform
or a password to the
school system. In
most cases, computers
get infected during
social engineering
attacks. Do you
already know what
social engineering is
? I would like to
remind you that
social engineering is
a sneaky trick to get
information, usually
secret or private,
such as passwords, by
pretending to be a
friendly person or
someone you know to
gain trust and lure
you into the trap.
For example, a
malicious person
could share infected
software. Even though
malware is the cause
of many and various
disruptions on the
computer, it cannot
be blamed for every
challenge and problem
in the digital
environment. New
software might work
slowly on older
devices. Annoying
advertisements might
be shown just because
you use a free
version of the game,
or you allowed the
engine to track your
actions in the
privacy settings.
Therefore,
attributing the
problem to the
malware requires
further analysis and
additional evidence.
Now you know what
malware is. Could you
think of one sentence
describing the harm
of malware to your
computer that you
would be worried or
concerned about? Let
us have some time to
think.
Thank you for
watching. Watch
another video in this
series to learn about
malware types. See
you soon!